So let me just quickly show you on the home
screen. Just how the reanimated components work. So
I'm going to just have a little little view here
and I'm going to animate the styles of dispute.
You see, you see how it works. Okay
, so let's do const shared equals use shared value
. Let's start with zero. And then let's do
a style which is use animated style and this is
a function and it returns an object which is the
style object. And so yeah, it's just a
return an empty object to begin with. All right
. So let's make this into a square. So
I'm going to do styles dot square square and I'm
going to give it some width and a height and
a background color off light green styles start square.
Okay. So we have a little square here.
So I want to do it so that when I
click on the square it moves slightly to the right
so to do that, I want to actually use
a press a ble so it's important possible. And
let's do an on press will do shared dr value
equals Shared dr value plus 20. Now our use
this shared value to update the style. So let's
do transform and that's this is an array and then
we want a object so we want to translate why
to whatever the shed value is shared value. Yeah
. All right. And now we want to add
this style to appreciable. Now, in order for
animated styles to take any effect on your component.
This needs to be an animated reanimated component. So
it's a way to do that. Yes, we'll
do const reanimated irrepressible and then where we have recommitted
reanimated, we need a default export. So reanimated
and we'll do a reanimated dot create animated component and
we pass in compressible. Okay. Yeah. And
we're going to use that instead of depressed people and
now we can pass in the style as the second
item on nostalgia. Now when I click on that
, okay, translate why obviously goes down. So
just to translate X they go. So every time
I click on it it moves now you'll notice that
it moves but it's not animating. So I wanted
to move move smoothly. So this is where the
with transition health and methods come in. So if
you remember in the animated dogs we have with timing
with spring with decay, we're timing is the one
that you're going to be using most often or at
least I do. So if we're import with timing
. So here on press where we set the new
value, we can do shared value and with timing
. So this will set this value to this new
value. So the current value plus 20 but it
will transition to it. So now let's reload when
working with the animator to it's often good to reload
in between hot reloading because it doesn't always update correctly
. Um so now when I, whenever I click
on it, it kind of shifts slightly to the
right there's an anime animation conflict here as well.
So I can tweak the duration. So I think
for example, say duration, 1000 of a second
. So we'll take a whole second to go to
the right. Mm hmm. So on a high
level, this is how animating component using animator styles
will work. Um let's use this now on our
button. So currently what's happening is you can't really
choose an emoji. Uh you can't really choose a
mood if you haven't selected one. However, this
button looks enabled so we just want to do a
visual ui update for the user to know that.
Oh well I know that. I can't currently choose
anything because this is dimmed out. So I'm going
to remove this VSCode from here. Alright, let's
go into our mood picker component. Okay, so
our choose button is over here and it's a press
a ble so we need to create an animated component
for it. So let's import reanimated from react native
. We animated. So we were talking about default
exports versus non default exports. So in the code
based on working at the moment, we have some
people imported as animated and some people imported as reanimated
. So we have to to standards. So if
this was and named exports, you wouldn't have that
problem. So const um reanimated, press a ble
he's reanimated create animated component and it's passing depress able
Now let's use it for our choose button. Let's
create an animated style for this. So const latin
style is use animated style and this is an arrow
function that returns an object and it has a dependency
to ray. And let's do capacity. It's too
if there is a selective mood Then let's do capacity
one. Otherwise let's do capacity 9.5. And let's
also pass this button style into our button. Excellent
. So now we are at where we were with
the previous case of doing animations so this works but
it doesn't actually animate. So how do we make
this animate? Well the handy thing about those weird
transition hooks is that you can use them within use
an immediate styles as well. So if you toggle
between two states, you don't have to create an
external shared value just to track it. You can
do it here. So if we import with timing
from react native reanimated, we can wrap these one
and no point no 0.0.5 with the timing function.
And then if this changes this capacity gets changed to
one or 2.5 but it will transition to that value
to know to reload and select one of these.
Oh okay. So the reason this doesn't work is
that there is a dependencies array but my ESPN plugging
isn't telling me that I need to add something to
it. So make sure you had selected mood to
the dependencies away and reload. Now when I select
something, you can see that it goes from Capacity
. Open five Capacity 1 Now, honey thing here
is that you can actually um animate several properties at
the same time. So we can also animate the
scale. So if we do transform, there's an
array and we'll do scale and we can do a
similar thing. So we'll do if the selected mood
a mood is selected, we will do a scale
of one. Otherwise that's too no .8 and we
can add a with timing. Yeah. So now
if you reload, you can see that this is
small and then when we choose an emoji, it
kind of both phase in and zooms in a little
bit. Now you notice that I didn't add with
timing here. This is because when I was doing
this earlier on android, there is currently a bug
for adding a timing function on scale on this particular
version. Already talked to the reanimated folks about it
. So we'll get this fixed thing. All right
. Let's make sure that we have our android app
also running so it's probably hasn't rebuilt. Yeah,
this needs to be rebuilt. Okay, so let's
rebuild android. There you go. So it turns
out you choose and then it both goes to opacity
one and it flows in. So this is a
pretty quick simple example, but it's very powerful because
you use the same kind of methods to do all
kinds of animations